Hi, I'm Linda.
I created a company called Paint Along.
Check us out at paintalongnyc.com.
We have really fun painting workshops in Nashville
and New York.
The first thing we want to do is establish
our horizon line.
I am gonna start with my purple paint and
i'm using a 1 inch flat brush and i'm just
gonna put a soft wavy line going across the
canvas and next i'm gonna put the sky in,
using some blue and some white.
This is phthalo blue and i'm gonna put the
darkest blue at the top of the canvas that's
closest to us , were gonna fade down to white
as it gets towards the horizon line, that
makes the sky look like its receding and going
backwards.
So this is the blue , the phthalo blue i'm
gonna empty my brush out onto the canvas and
this will serve as a mixing surface , i'm
gonna pickup some white with my brush without
washing it cause i want the blue to blend
into the white and i'm gonna take the white
right up into this blue and it gives me a
beautiful sky color.
Working the two colors back and forth together
with a soft running motion.
So i get towards the top of the mountains,
i'm just gonna try to match the top line of
the mountains with my brush stroke one up
and down to give it an uneven horizon line.
Now were gonna do the ground portion of the
landscape and its kind of the opposite approach
where you can have the lightest colors towards
the horizon line and then your gonna have
more color saturation, as you get towards
the bottom of the canvas which is actually
visually closer to us.
I'm gonna start with a yellow ochre color
and i'm gonna come right bellow our little
mountain line, i'm gonna add a little bit
of white in the background so that its a little
bit faded out and I think i'l put a little
bit of green in there too and this green is
gonna be in the very foreground.
I'm still blending the colors together you'll
have sort of a brownish tone in there which
is good for landscape , the next thing i'd
like to do is demonstrate a tree and were
going to start with the 1 half inch flat brush
, i'm gonna use the brown paint , i'm gonna
start with the brush very flat and just pull
up and as i get up, i'm gonna kind of twist
it just a little bit so the tree trunk can
get narrower, narrow as we go up , next i'm
gonna add some roots and some branches, the
next thing i'd like to demonstrate is the
leaves of the tree , starting with some green
paint in just a tapping motion and i'm also
gonna add some lighter green paint on top
to give it a little bit more dimension and
those are some basic landscape tips.